Overview

This is a simple Folding@Home installer/configuration script for Linux.  It has
been tested with Ubuntu Linux 5.10, but should work on any LSB-compliant Linux
system with SysV-style init.  It will

    - download the client
    - set it up for the number of processors in your system
    - install for either you (i.e. in your $HOME) or for the system
        - if installing for the system, create a foldingathome user
    - give you a start/stop script


Installation

To install, simply go to the directory where the installer is, and run it.  You
cannot run the installer from another directory; it assumes that all of it's
files are in the current directory.  Example:

    $ cd /path/to/fah_install/
    $ sudo ./install.sh install

There are two ways to install: install to the system or to your $HOME.  If the
installer is run as root, then it will install to the system, otherwise it will
install to the home directory of whoever is running it.  When installing to the
system, it will put the init script in /etc/init.d and create symlinks in rc?.d
to automatically start the client at boot time.  If you install to your $HOME,
it will put the init script in the same folder as the client and create a cron
job to start it every hour.  The init script should be idempotent -- that is,
running it many times is the same as running it once.  It should only start as
many clients as there are CPUs, so if another user has started clients, you or
anyone else will not be able to.

If the installer needs to be downloaded by hand, you need to place it
in the same directory as the install.sh script.

Configuration

There are two ways to configure the client.  First, you can use the client's
question/answer configuration.  The reconfigure.sh script, located in the
foldingathome directory, is the proper way to do this.  Using it ensures that
everything will be updated correctly.  

The other route to configuration is by giving options to the client when
starting it.  The init script will get these options from two sources.  The
first is /etc/default/foldingathome.  This is for system-wide options.  All
clients will look for it, even those installed to a user's $HOME directory.  The
other place is in the configuration directory, foldingathome/config.  In here
there should be an option file for each client.  These per-client options will
override the system-wide options.


Running

If you installed to the system, the client should start at boot.  If something
goes wrong, you can interact with the client with the script
/etc/init.d/foldingathome.  It accepts the options "start", "stop", "restart",
and "send".  Send sends all complete work units, e.g. you have a laptop that is
not connected all the time, you can easily upload if you have a transient
connection.  The others are self evident in function.  You should only specify
one option.  Example:

    $ sudo /etc/init.d/foldingathome restart

If you installed to your home directory, then it works as above, but resides in
$HOME/opt/foldingathome.  The client should start automatically; it is set up as
a cron job.


Updates

You can easily update the init script and basically everything but the client
itself with the update option.  If you have a different version of the client,
you must uninstall.

It *might* work to install a new version of the client directly on top
of an old one, but this really isn t recommended.  The danger is that
the work unit will get corrupted.  Do a backup of /opt/foldingathome
before attempting this.


Uninstalling

Before uninstalling, you should stop any running clients.  You can use the
commmand `ps -ef | grep -i fah` to see if any clients are running.  Stop them
with the init script or kill.

There are two ways to uninstall.  You can use the installer script, which is
fairly self explanatory.  If you don't have the installer anymore, or it is not
working, then you can manually delete the files that have been installed.  The
following is a list of files and directories that are installed by the
installer.  

    /opt/foldingathome
    /home/*/opt/foldingathome
    /etc/default/foldingathome
    /etc/init.d/foldingathome


Additional Notes

For those with HyperThreading, only physical CPUs will count as a CPU.  This is
the recommended way to run the client, because although running two clients on
an HT CPU will be about 30% more productive than running a single client, each
client will run at about 65% of a single client.  Fast results are more
important than slow results in this project, so it is better to run a single
client.  See http://forum.folding-community.org/viewtopic.php?t=10427 for more
information.  If you still want to run more clients, or the installer guesses
the wrong number of physical CPUs, then you can specify teh number you want
during installation.

For added security, the installer will create a foldingathome user, whose
account is disabled.  The init script will start the client as this user if the
script is run as root.  This way, the client should never run as root.  There
has never been a reported security flaw in the client or a breach caused by the
client, as far as I know, but every little bit helps.  If installed to $HOME,
then the client is run as the user.

If your internet connection is not stable, e.g. you use dail up or you have a
laptop that travels and doesn't always get a connection, then you may not be
online long enough to upload finished work units.  You can upload all finished
work units manually by running the init script with the send option.  You do not
have to shut down running clients to send results.


Other Resources

This collection of scripts should be available at the Ubuntu Linux Wiki at
https://help.ubuntu.com/community/FoldingAtHome.  There are also additional
notes and links at that page.  If you have trouble installing this, feel free to
email me (address below).


Disclaimer

This script is just a simple thing I came up with.  I was inspired by the Gentoo
Linux Folding@Home ebuild, and the way it easily ran as many clients as CPUs on
the system.  I have borrowed from that.  I have tested it with my system, and
will attempt to help you if you have trouble.  That said, I take no
responsibility for any damage done to your system, so use this at your own risk.

Jonathan Kotta
jpkottaATgmailDOTcom
